today were reviewing the Intel Core I
nine 10900 X a 10 core apart from the
Intel Core expert on CH that's supposed
to tide us over until Intel has
something actually new following the
disappointing launch of the Intel 10 980
X II which was thoroughly trounced by
the cheaper and technically lower and
3950 X the 10 core part will mostly
stand up against Intel's own 9900 K and
AMD's r9 3900 X considering we spent
$600 retail for this part and
considering the cost of most X 299
boards a 39 50 X is also within the
price range when totaling the board and
CPU cost there's a lot to talk about
today is ten nine hundred extra view but
you probably have an idea of how it's
going to go down before that this video
is brought to you by EVGA SRT X 20 atti
XC ultra the 20 80 TI XE ultra is what
we use in our CPU reviews to avoid GPU
bottlenecks the XE ultra uses hydraulic
dynamic bearing fans for reduce the
noise features an RT X support for DX
our titles and uses a massive 2.75 slot
cooler the cooler design allows the fans
to spin slower and quieter while sinking
heat further leveraging a mix of
l-shaped and traditional fins to
maximize airflow or contact
learn more at the link in the
description below so just start off with
a disclaimer about recent news videos
someone said the audio is a dumpster
fire nope just my voice right now I'm
sick sorry I deal with it so the
although I appreciate the compliment I
guess so for the 10 900 X right out of
the way we should state the PCIe lane
difference is the primary reason anyone
would actually consider this part
because as we go through their
performance results you'll see that the
9900 K makes a lot more sense for well
gaming and everywhere else it would make
sense and then basically anything from
AMD at the high end makes more sense for
a lot of the production stuff but there
are some interesting points with the
10900 accent on the last as far as PCIe
you're looking at 48 for the CPU versus
16 for the 900k you're looking at 256
gigabytes of maximum memory capacity
which is noteworthy
more memory channels caches up as well
but it's really the PCIe laying count
and the memory support that
you're paying for with the HD DT
platforms it's just that this is a
low-end HDD chip which always gets to be
kind of weird because the there have
been others of those before like the 77
40 X although that was even worse much
worse in a lot of ways especially when
you start looking on the memory
configuration anyway it's 3.7 gigahertz
base for the 10 900 X 4.5 gigahertz
boost we overclocked and of course those
numbers are going to be some of the most
interesting because it's where Intel
could actually claw back some
performance and the primary comparisons
will be the 1900 K for gaming from Intel
it's about $500 CPU where's the 10 900 X
is about $600 there's the 3900 X from
AMD which is about a $500 CPU and then
there's the 39 50 X from Andy which is
about $750 if you can find it and that's
really a lot of these except the 9rk are
kind of hard to find right now so let's
get into the performance numbers and
we'll start with production we'll get
into games and then talk about if
there's instances where this thing makes
sense well start with some of our
production benchmarks as this is
technically an h EDT cpu and not a
mainstream socket we'll talk gaming in
the latter half of this review for adobe
premiere our 1080p show floor render
completed in about 3.6 minutes on the
intel 10 900 X which mrsa is about equal
to the 99 hundred KS stock CPU the 3900
X outperforms the 10 900 X as does the
39 50x overclocked ninten 900 X gets it
to three points two minutes completion
time passing the 3900 ax stock and
overclocked results but being beaten by
the 3950 ax stock results with our 4k a
roll and b roll render instead the 10
900 X finishes in 10 minutes 1 stock
which has just ahead of the 1950 X and
behind the 3900 X the 3900 X CPU stock
leads the 10 900 X by 11% or so and
overclocked pushes the 10 900 acts to a
13% render time reduction from its own
stock performance levels although the
3900 acts in this instance is better
value and also really strong performance
compared to the weak showing from the 10
900 acts blender offers us a look at an
application that leverages the threads
more evenly across the CPU
with less focus on frequency although
it's still beneficial of course starting
first with our GN monkey heads render
the Intel 10900 ax finishes the render
in sixteen point six minutes which has
it about tied with the 9900 K at five
point two gigahertz or the 1950s stock
threader per CPU from 2017 overclocking
doesn't change much in this workload
pushing to fourteen point four minutes
and approaching sixteen course seventy
960 ax levels of performance the 3900 X
stock CPU completes the render in 23%
last time than the stock 10 900 X while
being cheaper in both CPU and
motherboard costs while the 39 50 X
completes the render and 39% last time
the GM logo render is more intensive
with the 10 900 X finishing in nineteen
point seven minutes stock or 17 minutes
when overclocked the stock 1950 X does
the same job in 16 minutes illustrating
the value of extra threads in blender
and the 3900 X does all of this in
fifteen point six minutes illustrating
the shared value of threads and IPC or
higher frequencies as well on blender
the 3900 acts completes the render and
21 percent last time then the stock
10900 X so it's just not even close
Photoshop is wanted ob products that
still doesn't benefit much from high
thread counts or at least not past the
eight core 16 thread 9900 K tested for a
filter transform scale and a lot of
other tasks in Photoshop
the average overall score for the 10900
X was 970 points with the 9900 K and
3900 X outperforming it in a similar
fashion to the gaming tests the night I
heard K is in particular scoring well at
10 so d1 points stock which is ten point
four percent ahead of the 10900 x stock
cpu and it scored 11 35 points
overclocked to five point one gigahertz
eight point six percent ahead of the ten
nine hundred x at five gigahertz that
overclocked score for the ten nine
hundred X was ten forty-five points
almost exactly tied with the 3900 X
stock CPU not all production workloads
take advantage of more cores and
sometimes the more gamer oriented
desktop parts can beat the HDD T ones as
you see here 7-zip is next we're looking
at decompression and
in that order the decompression score
for the 10900 axe was ninety three
thousand MIPS this time maintaining only
a nine percent advantage over the 19 I
had a case average overclock in the
10900 axe to five gigahertz with a 30x
mesh helped more than overclocking the
9900 k the 5.2 gigahertz with the gap
widening and the OC results to a
fourteen point six percent advantage for
the ten nine hundred x OC versus ninety
nine hundred k OC the former of these
scored one hundred and seven thousand
mips
none of these results came close to aim
these decompression score of one hundred
and forty-two thousand MIPS for the
stock 3900 X or 148 thousand dips with
the four point three gigahertz all four
overclocked compression testing is next
the Intel ten nine hundred acts averaged
eighty seven thousand MIPS and the
compression portion of the sevens at
benchmark thirty percent ahead of the
stock ninety nine hundred KS 66,000 MIPS
the extra Court's help and this is at a
store and the threader per chips
typically ruled the high end the third
day I had a tax with its 12 cores twenty
four threads also our performs the ten
nine hundred acts at 103 thousand MIPS a
lead of about ninety percent
overclocking at n900 acts improves
scoring by eight percent but ninety
three thousand MIPS at five gigahertz is
still significantly behind aim these
higher core count parts the ten nine
hundred X doesn't beat the 3900 X and
doesn't touch the 3950 acts at one
twenty two thousand MIPS and given that
the combined board plus CPU cost of the
ten nine hundred X puts it into combined
plus CPU cost of the 3950 X
that's really not a good thing for the
Intel ten core taken in combination with
the decompression scores the 3900 ax is
well ahead of the Intel chips it's
competing with here v-ray is the last of
the production workloads before we get
into our game benchmarks this is another
3d render workload but an extremely
lightweight one compared to our blender
tests allowing more of the task to fall
within intel's turbo durations when they
apply the ten 900 acts required 56
seconds to complete mashing it with the
99 hundred K at 5.2 gigahertz once again
that puts it below the 1920 x stock CPU
although the 10 900 X overclock we used
in performance to 46 seconds completion
time performance here is just below than
I
in 50x and stock r9 3900 ax was the 3950
ax a distant leader moving on to game
testing shadow of the Tomb Raider is the
first of two dx12 applications we
currently test and the 10900 axe had
better relative performance here than in
some of the other games the 10900 axe
stock CPU held 152 FPS average 6.3
percent higher than the 3900 X's 143 FPS
average although the 9900 K remains king
of the hill for a game performance with
an average of 170 FPS or a lead of about
12% of the 10900 X overclocking the
10900 ax gets into 170 FPS average
functionally tying the stock 9900 K CPU
and hitting a point where we're nearing
GPU limitations in this instance the
10900 ax doesn't provide value over the
night of K for gaming the 3900 ax
competes with it in production tasks and
reasonably well here too and the 99er K
competes with it in gaming primarily
leaving the h EDT chipset and PCIe lanes
as the deciding factor for the 10900 ax
hitman 2 is our next dx12 title we
preferred the x11 benchmarks for this
game but the audience really wanted the
x12 back and we introduced this testing
despite overall worse performance anyway
at 1080p the Intel 10900 ax hit 120 for
FPS average just barely better than the
121 FPS average for the stock AMD r9
3900 X this would typically be the type
of title that would benefit from a hike
or count because of all the AI
simulation but in terms of framerate the
Niantic K has both of the other cpus
beaten at 136 FPS average that's a lead
of about 10% over the 10900 X the Intel
10900 acts over Glocks to 5 gigahertz
average 19% higher than its stock
results bringing the average to 147 FPS
and putting it near the top of the chart
although the overclocked 10 9 8 exe
still has it beaten when 100 megahertz
lower as for the dieter KS at 5.2
gigahertz that nearly matches the 10900
ax 5 gigahertz / cloth just for cheaper
at 1440p the ceiling is dropped due to
GPU constraint
clearly and the 10900 exa ends up at 141
FPS average for its maximum performance
when overclocked to five gigahertz
it'll lead over the 9900 K at five point
one stock performance has the 10900 axe
equivalent to the 3950 X both that 124
to 125 FPS average with the 97 RK and
Monday night arcade stock CPUs both
tactically outperforming these two parts
there's not really a strong argument for
the 10900 axe in this game as is
probably expected Civilization turn time
benchmarks our next moving away from FPS
and toward a different type of game
performance metric for this one the
Intel I 9 10900 X stock CPU takes 30 2.8
seconds per turn to process which has it
equal with the AMD r9 3900 X and worse
than the stock in town I heard K at
twenty nine point seven seconds the 9900
K finishes in about nine point five
percent less time the 10900 X CPU is
marginally better than the 8700 K and
equal to the 1090 DX e stock CPU
overclocking the 10 900 X 2 5 gigahertz
gets at a time reduction of 12% from the
stock performance getting it near the
top of the charts the thing is though
that an overclocked 9900 a is
functionally equals of this performance
so Intel hasn't really gained any ground
against itself here F 1 2018 is next
giving us a DirectX 11 title to look at
we like this one for its high ceiling
before GPU limits are hit allowing us a
unique look at frame time pacing between
CPUs the 10 900 X under stock settings
hit 282 FPS average which hasn't roughly
tied with the 10 980 x e the extra cores
are obviously not leveraged here like in
most games and the frequency deficit
costs performance to the point of being
worse than an Intel i5 9600 K stock CPU
and its 284 FPS average most importantly
the frame time consistency takes a dive
on the h EDT Intel CPUs where we see the
minus 600 K producing more reliable
frame time performance and that likely
has to do with scheduling the 3900 AK
stock CPU lands at about 276 FPS average
allowing the 10 900 X a tactical lead
and the night I heard K leads at 313 FPS
average one stock and percentages the
lead over the 10 900 AK stock CPU is 11
sent for the 900k stock CPU overclock
and the 10900 axe gets it into more of a
leadership position but still not one
that can beat the 99 herd KS overclock
moving into 1440p for f1 chops the top
off the performance numbers landing the
10900 AK stock cpu at roughly 221 FPS
average down near the 39 50 X and i-5
7600 K overclocking promotes more frames
keeping things at 240 FPS but there's
still no appeal over a cheaper 9900 K
for this gaming workload GTA 5 is next
at 1080 P GTA 5 has the 10900 acts at
100 FPS average resting in its proper
place between the stock 99 ATX e at 95
FPS average and stock 10 9 8 exe at 103
FPS average although the other two
processors are 18 core 36 thread
compared to the 10900 axes 10 core 20
threads this is irrelevant to many games
that's especially including GTA 5 the
determining factor is max turbo in this
title at least and according to that
metric this stack makes sense with that
in mind the much more gaming focused
9900 K stomps all over the h EDT trips
with an average of 122 FPS even though
3,900 X scored 110 FPS average allowing
a lead over the 10 900 X stock CPU it's
still a strange experience to see Andy
taking the lead and frequency-dependent
stock tests but the 3900 ax is also much
closer to peak he came in performance
right out of the box as the relatively
low gains from overclocking show the 10
900 X clocks to 5 gigahertz managed a
20% uplift to 119 FPS average while the
3900 X's performance rose just 2.8
percent with an overclocked up to 113
and there's a whole different discussion
to be had on memory tuning for Rison
3000 but we had that in a different
video
the 9900 K at 5.1 gigahertz tops the
chart for non LNG overclocking with an
average of 132 FPS while maintaining an
equally impressive 79 FPS average for
these 0.1% lows GTA 5 stack at 1440p is
much the same as 1080p with mostly the
same FPS averages this is a CPU bound
test
even at 1440p for the
CPUs that we're talking about mostly
today the 10900 Act still shows
significant uplift from overclocking
from 100 to 120 FPS average which is a
mixed benefit on the one hand you have
some Headroom to improve performance
which is nice and makes for fun
enthusiast tasks but on the other hand
you're paying for CPUs that run below
peak performance out of box the 10900
axe outperforms the 3900 acts when
overclocked here but not stock to stock
either way the 9900 K beats both CPUs
with a 120 to FPS average for the stock
result alone
total wars campaign tests creates
greater Delta's between CPUs than the
battle benchmark and can sometimes shake
up the stack the 10900 X average to 133
FPS stock and although the 1350 X and
3900 acts remained ahead its advantage
narrowed to 5.4 percent with a 140 FPS
average overclocking gave the 10900 ax a
big boost once again at 159 FPS average
and a jump of 20% over stock performance
that said the frame times are all over
the place now which illustrates a
stability issue with these settings this
could be better tuned by dropping 100
megahertz off the clock but then you're
also losing some performance and other
games where it's stable versus the 3900
ax is 145 FPS when overclocked the 10900
ax maintains an advantage and OC
headroom if stability can be achieved
the 1900 K average 179 fps vastly beyond
the rest of the CPUs listed here
although again this is a specific game
where we see problems appear on higher
core count CPUs so far it's looking like
the 10 900 X is in the same category as
the 7740 X the low end of the high end
and is more expensive but not
necessarily better than products further
down the stack the second of our two
Total War benchmarks takes place on the
battle rather than the campaign map for
more intensive but somewhat less CPU
bound benchmark the stock 10900 x
averaged 143 fps and the battle
benchmark with a lows that were overall
good the 3900 X averaged 159 fps 11.3%
ahead of the stock 10 900 X overclocked
in the 10900 ax had mixed results again
with this title with a consistently bad
one percent and point one percent low
that had an average FPS that was still
seven point eight percent beyond the
stock result this isn't title that
typically doesn't respond well to hike
or counts illustrated by the ninety nine
eighty XE beam all over the place and
the eight core sixteen thread ninety
nine hundred Kay's ability to beat the
higher core count CPUs that were
comparing today by sometimes a lot so
unfortunately the ten nine hundred acts
is just sort of we have to be I always
have to be careful with this phrase and
when I use it so it's not a bad CPU in
an objective sense but it's bad in the
comparative sense you should buy the
ninety nine hurt K if you care about
gaming it's a ten core part but you're
still dealing with Intel's hdgt
architectures and mesh can cause a bit
of an issue there the clocks are
obviously the bigger issue there so for
Intel to start competing and desktop
meaning non HED t the lower end of the
two it will need probably a ten core
part it will need something like this
it's just it's gonna need that part at
ninety nine hundred K frequencies and
that doesn't exist right now so the ten
core part was the one that we hoped
would be sort of a a bit of a saving
grace for Intel just to keep things
interesting because presently it's been
the same story for Intel since the nine
hundred K came out which is that well
okay best for gaming buy it for gaming
only buy it if you're an FPS snob
whatever you know the story that hasn't
changed there's not a new part and
that's not a denial heart K is becoming
an old part so kind of boring the the
end all for this is if you're playing
games and that's all you're doing by the
night okay don't buy this if you are
planning to render things with
applications like those we've shown
today and the PCIe lanes are not really
that much of a consideration for you or
a consideration at all beyond a GPU and
maybe an SSD then the 3900 X would be
the lower cost as in five hundred
dollars still expensive but it's cheaper
than this then the 10900 X 300 ax would
be the lower-cost choice the
3950 axe once you start bashing and
motherboard costs really not that
different from the 10900 axe assuming
you can find it in stock kind of also a
paper launch really and these should be
should be kind of knocked for that but
they're splitting their silicon a lot of
different ways intel is splitting its
silicon the same way as it always has
it's just run out of silicon but if the
39:50 x is in stock it's really hands
down the better cpu is the 10900 action
pretty much every single instance so
we'd much prefer that purchase and with
the board costs combined with the CPO
it's about the same so then the choices
are everything except for this one this
is base coat we're saying night I hurt K
sure whatever if that's what you like to
do gamings it go by that production go
by 3900 X 439 50x and PCIe lanes maybe
there starts to be an argument here but
there's still cheaper alternatives from
previous generations if you just want
PCIe lanes a lot of those CPUs are on
sale these days so just not quite able
to find a good defensible position for
the 10 900 X and that's gonna be it for
this one thanks for watching subscribe
for more you'll want to catch our
whatever I'll leave it there it fell
over
Johanna catch our disappointment build
coming out soon it has some Intel makes
an appearance so check back for that
subscribe go to stored on Cameron's axis
dotnet to help us out directly or
patreon.com slash gamers nexus and we'll
see you all next time
[Music]